Python API Development Course

Welcome to the Python API Development Course repository! This course is designed to provide you with comprehensive knowledge and practical skills in building APIs using Python with FastAPI. Throughout this course, you'll learn fundamental concepts of API design, database integration, testing, and deployment.

Course Overview

In this course, you'll cover the following topics:

Setting up development environment on both Mac and Windows
Python virtual environment basics
Starting with FastAPI and understanding path operations
HTTP requests and schema validation with Pydantic
CRUD operations and storing data
Introduction to databases and SQL
Database CRUD operations using SQLAlchemy
Implementing authentication and authorization with JWT tokens
Advanced topics such as SQL relationships, joins, and migrations
Deploying the API to Heroku and Ubuntu server
Dockerizing the application for containerized deployment
Writing tests using pytest and setting up CI/CD pipeline with GitHub Actions
Course Content

The course is structured into the following sections:

Introduction and project overview
Setting up development environment
Building APIs with FastAPI
Database integration and SQL fundamentals
Authentication and authorization
Advanced topics including SQL relationships and joins
Deployment on Heroku and Ubuntu server
Dockerizing the application
Writing tests and setting up CI/CD pipeline
Prerequisites

Before starting the course, ensure you have the following prerequisites:

Basic knowledge of Python programming language
Familiarity with command line interface
Access to a text editor such as Visual Studio Code
Git and GitHub account for version control
Course Instructor

This course is instructed by Sanjeev Thiyagarajan. Check out his channel: @sanjeevthiyagarajan

Technology Stack

Programming Languages
Python
Web Framework
FastAPI
Database
PostgreSQL
ORM (Object-Relational Mapping)
SQLAlchemy
Testing Framework
Pytest
Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)
GitHub Actions
Development Environment
Visual Studio Code (VS Code)
Containerization
Docker
Deployment Platforms
Heroku
Ubuntu Server
Version Control
Git
GitHub
Web Server
NGINX (covered for deployment)
Others
Postman (for API testing)
Alembic (for database migrations)
Gunicorn (for serving FastAPI in production)
Course Tools

Python Virtual Environment Management
Creation and management of Python virtual environments for project isolation.
PostgreSQL GUI Management
PgAdmin (for managing PostgreSQL databases through a graphical user interface).
API Testing
Postman collections for testing API endpoints and saving requests.
Database Migrations
Alembic for managing database schema changes and migrations.
Text Editor
Visual Studio Code (VS Code) for writing and editing code.
Course Workflow

The course covers setting up a development environment, creating APIs with FastAPI, integrating with databases using SQLAlchemy, writing tests with Pytest, deploying applications to Heroku and Ubuntu Server, containerizing applications with Docker, and setting up CI/CD pipelines with GitHub Actions.

This technology stack and workflow provide a comprehensive foundation for learning Python API development and related technologies.

Getting Started

To get started with the course, follow these steps:

Clone the repository to your local machine:
bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/Sanjeev-Thiyagaraj...
Navigate to the repository directory:
bash
Copy code
cd Python-API-Development-Course
Follow the course videos sequentially and complete the exercises provided.
If you encounter any issues or have questions, feel free to reach out to the course instructor or community for assistance.
Additional Resources

Course Repository
Course Instructor's Channel
FastAPI Documentation
Pydantic Documentation
SQLAlchemy Documentation
Acknowledgments

Special thanks to Sanjeev Thiyagarajan for providing this comprehensive course on Python API development.
